In this video, we get
to see episodic sarsa
in action on a
continuous state domain.
We'll visualize
the learn values and gain
some intuition about
the solutions learned by sarsa.
By the end of this video,
you will gain
experience analyzing
the performance of an
approximate TD control method.
Let's look at an example
of episodic sarsa on
a classic control domain
called Mountain Car.
Mountain car is an episodic
task where the objective is to
drive an underpowered car up
the side of the mountain.
Gravity is stronger
than the car's engine,
so the agent cannot directly
drive up the mountain.
The only way to
escape is to first
drive backwards up
the left slope.
Then driving down
the hill gives the car
enough momentum to drive up
the right slope and out.
The episode begins with a car in
a random location near
the bottom of the valley.
It ends when the car reaches
the flag at the top of the hill.
To encourage the agent to finish
the episode as
quickly as possible,
the reward is minus
one on each timestep,
and no discounting is used.
The agent can observe
the current position
and velocity of the car.
This is a two-dimensional
continuous-valued state.
The agent has a choice between
three actions:
accelerate forward,
accelerate backward, or coast.
For this example,
we jointly talco
the position and velocity
to produce features.
We use eight tiles,
which means we use
eight-by-eight grids
for the two-dimensional
input space.
We use eight tilings,
which means we have
eight overlapping grids.
We treat actions independently
by using a stacked
feature representation.
We initialize
the weights to zero.
This initialization is
actually optimistic.
This is because a reward
is minus one per step,
so the values under any policy
will be less than zero.
In this problem,
these optimistic initial values
cause extensive and
systematic exploration.
Because of this, we can act
greedily without any
additional random exploration.
Let's see what the value
function looks like
after we run the agent
for a very long time.
Ideally, we would like to plot
the value function
for every state.
However, there is an uncountably
infinite number of states.
So we'll have to sample
the set of states.
We'll use the max value
in each sample state.
This number tells us
the number of steps the agent
thinks it will take to escape
under its greedy policy.
The reward is minus
one for each step,
so we negate
this number to produce
the agent's estimate
of the number of
steps to go from each state.
Here's the agent's estimate
of the expected number of
steps after 9,000 episodes.
This is a really long time
for this problem,
so we're pretty sure
the value estimates
are about as good as
they're going to get.
But they're not perfect due
to function approximation.
The green line represents
the goal position which does
not depend on the velocity.
Near the goal, if
the velocity is large enough,
the agent can directly drive out.
However, if the agent is near
the goal but
the velocity is too low,
it will take
many steps to escape.
This was because the agent
must first go back down
the hill and up the left side
again to gain
enough momentum to escape.
The peak corresponds
to the start states
where it takes around 120 steps
to reach the flag.
This green trajectory
reveals the path
taken through the state-space
by the learn policy.
The value function look
pretty interesting,
but let's look at some
learning curves to get
better insight into
the speed of learning.
Let's try sarsa with
three different values of Alpha,
so three variants
of the algorithm.
Here we are interested
in the steps to goal,
which in this case corresponds
to the return per episode.
We expect the number of steps per
episode to decrease
with learning.
Lower on the x-axis corresponds
to better policies,
policies that can
reach the goal in
the fewest steps on average.
As always, we average
the performance over
many independent runs.
Here are the results.
By 500 episodes, the number of
steps per episode has
roughly stabilized.
All the learning curves exhibit
the familiar exponential profile.
The smaller step size
parameter value of
0.1 results in slower learning,
while Alpha of 0.5
allow the agent to
learn more quickly and find
a better policy
over 500 episodes.
Notice we divided
each Alpha value by eight.
If we are not using
a vector of step sizes,
we often scale
the step size parameter
by the norm of
the feature vector.
Here we use eight tilings
in our tile coder.
That means the number of 1's in
the feature vector
is always eight.
As a simple exercise,
prove to yourself that
eight corresponds
to the L_1 norm of
the feature vector.
Okay, that's enough for today.
In this video, we evaluated
episodic sarsa with
linear function approximation in
mountain car. See you next time.